docs: Tyk 5.12.1 release notes (#1850)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/gateway.mdx

Please note that the Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Gateway. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.1.

- [Source code tarball of Tyk Gateway v5.12.1](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/releases/tag/v5.12.1)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.12.1" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed
<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Updated Golang version to 1.25'>
The Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25, improving security by staying up-to-date with Go versions.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Update Docker images to Debian 13 (Trixie)'>
Updated the Docker images for Tyk Gateway to Debian 13 (Trixie) to address multiple vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed
<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Fixed path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs'>
Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the Request Validation or Mock Response middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass these middleware if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.
</Accordion>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs'>
```

> <Accordion title='Fixed path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## 5.12 Release Notes 

### 5.12.1 Release Notes 

> #### Release Date xx April 2026

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 21st April 2026
```

#### Release Highlights

> Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25 and Debian 13 (Trixie) for enhanced security and performance, including updated FIPS-compliant images. This release addresses multiple CVEs in dependent libraries and fixes a route priority issue where parameterized paths incorrectly took precedence over static paths in the ValidateRequest middleware for Tyk OAS APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25 and Debian 13 (Trixie) for enhanced security and performance, including updated FIPS-compliant images. This release addresses multiple CVEs in dependent libraries and fixes a path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs.
```

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.12.1"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.12.1, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-gateway/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.12.1)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-gateway:v5.12.1
    ``` 
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.1.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-1-0-release-notes)

Please note that the Tyk Helm Charts are configured to install the LTS version of Tyk Gateway. You will need to modify them to install v5.12.1.

- [Source code tarball of Tyk Gateway v5.12.1](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk/releases/tag/v5.12.1)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.12.1" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Changed
<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Updated Golang version to 1.25'>
The Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25, improving security by staying up-to-date with Go versions.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Update base images to Debian 13 (Trixie)'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Update Docker images to Debian 13 (Trixie)'>
```

> Updated the base Docker images for Tyk Gateway to Debian 13 (Trixie) to address multiple vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updated the Docker images for Tyk Gateway to Debian 13 (Trixie) to address multiple vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Update FIPS images to Golang 1.25 and Debian 13'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not required

> Updated the FIPS-compliant Docker images to use Go 1.25 and Debian 13 as the base image to ensure continued security and compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> </Accordion>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed
<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fix route priority logic for ValidateRequest middleware'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed path matching inconsistency for Tyk OAS APIs'>
```

> Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the ValidateRequest middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass validation if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the Request Validation or Mock Response middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass these middleware if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.
```

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Updated Go version to 1.25'>
The Tyk Gateway has been updated to Golang 1.25, improving security by staying up-to-date with Go versions.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Update base images to Debian 13 (Trixie)'>
Updated the base Docker images for Tyk Gateway to Debian 13 (Trixie) to address multiple vulnerabilities in the underlying operating system.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Update FIPS images to Go 1.25 and Debian 13'>
Updated the FIPS-compliant Docker images to use Go 1.25 and Debian 13 as the base image to ensure continued security and compliance.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Fixed
<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Fix route priority logic for ValidateRequest middleware'>
Resolved an issue where parameterized paths could incorrectly take precedence over static paths when using the ValidateRequest middleware in Tyk OAS APIs. Static paths will now correctly bypass validation if not explicitly configured, restoring the expected routing behavior.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Security Fixes

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='CVE fixed'>
Addressed the following CVEs, providing increased protection against security

> vulnerabilities, including, but not limited to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addressed the following CVEs, providing increased protection against security vulnerabilities:
```

> vulnerabilities, including, but not limited to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Addressed CVEs reported in dependent libraries, providing increased protection against security vulnerabilities.
```
